Five students were stabbed during violent clashes allegedly between members of the EFF student command and the South African  Students Congress (Sasco) at the Durban University of Technology on Tuesday morning. KZN police spokesperson Capt Nqobile Gwala said the students were stabbed during an altercation at Durban's Berea campus. “They were taken to a campus clinic for medical attention. Police are at the scene to monitor and stabilise the situation, which is quiet at the moment. No case was opened [but] victims were advised to open cases,” Gwala said. Speaking to TimesLIVE on Tuesday, Sasco head Malwande Ndobe said the clash followed threats reported by their members on Friday. “Comrades reported that they were threatened on Friday not to go ahead with our annual right to learn campaign where we assist first-year students with access to funding, study spaces and other things. However, we understand that the EFF comrades were not planning to do this and didn't want our comrades to go ahead. “When our comrades set up their tables on Tuesday morning, they were confronted by the EFF students who started attacking them.” Ndobe said one of their members was trampled and his arm  broken while  another was critically injured. “You will see from the video that they were throwing boulders and males were attacking our female comrades. Who does this when we are busy fighting a GBV war?” He said they were in the process of laying criminal charges. However, EFFSC DUT secretary Sandiso Buthelezi claimed that the fight was sparked by “thugs” who were opposed to their student body exposing criminal opportunism. “We have reported to DUT management that there have been several incidents where vulnerable students have been victims of cybercrime and opportunism in which they have been made to pay for services that have turned out to be a scam. “These are deeply rural students who don't know anything about how the campus operates or about Durban, especially during this time when everything is online. In addition to that we have an issue with the management and [higher education minister] Blade Nzimande with regard to our students who haven't been able to access funding as well as students who failed last year because they didn't have laptops and data. We are determined to have these students registered this year. “This morning two of our members were attacked and stabbed by these thugs — some criminal elements which we pointed out to the police. Our fight is not with the student body, but with management who aren't doing anything to protect our students.” Buthelezi said his members would bring criminal charges once they were discharged. DUT didn't respond to queries. TimesLIVE