ANC deputy chief whip Doris Dlakude is most likely going to lead the parliamentary process that will probe public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane's fitness to hold office. SowetanLIVE's sister publication TimesLIVE understands that the ANC has deployed a group of senior MPs to the special committee that will inquire into whether there are grounds for Mkhwebane's removal. Dlakude, Mondli Gungubele, Richard Dyantyi, Tina Joemat-Pettersson, Judy Hermans, Xola Nqola and Bekizwe Nkosi will make up the ANC's complement of the special committee. Chairperson of the higher education committee, Philemon Mapulane, and Teiliswa Mgweba will be the party's alternate members. The EFF — which had threatened to go to court to challenge the parliamentary process — has deployed its leader Julius Malema to the committee, while the DA, whose chief whip Natasha Mazzone tabled the motion to remove Mkhwebane, has deployed Annelie Lotriet and Leon Schreiber. TimesLIVE understands that National Assembly speaker Thandi Modise received the names at the end of March, which was the deadline for parties to submit names for the process. The committee will have 26 members representing each of the 14 political parties represented in the National Assembly. Only 11 will be voting members of the committee, with 15 non-voting members. The National Assembly last month voted in favour of establishing the committee to probe Mkhwebane's fitness to hold office when it adopted the report of an independent panel of experts which recommended that such a committee be established. Parliamentary rules require the section 194 committee to conduct an inquiry, to establish whether the charges are sustainable and to report to the National Assembly. The committee’s report will have to contain findings, recommendations and reasons and must be scheduled for consideration and debate with appropriate urgency. The full list of members are: VOTING MEMBERS ANC Dlakude, Ms Doris Eunice Dyantyi, Mr Qubudile Richard Joemat-Pettersson, Ms Tina Monica Gungubele, Mr Mondli Hermans, Ms Judy Nkosi, Mr Bekizwe Simon Mapulane, Mr Mohlopi Phillemon (Alternate) Mgweba, Ms Teiliswa (Alternate) DA Lotriet, Dr Annelie Schreiber, Dr Leon Amos EFF Malema, Mr Julius Sello IFP Majozi, Ms Zandile Freedom Front Plus Mulder, Dr Cornelius Petrus  NON-VOTING MEMBERS ANC Tolashe, Ms Nokuzola Gladys Nqola, Mr Xola DA Nodada, Mr Baxolile Babongile EFF Maotwe, Ms Omphile Mankoba Confidence IFP Msimang, Prof Christian Themba Freedom Front Plus Denner, Ms Heloise African Christian Democratic Party Sukers, Ms Marie Elizabeth UDM Holomisa, Mr Bantubonke Harrington African Transformation Movement Marawu, Ms Thandiswa Linnen GOOD August, Mr Shaun National Freedom Party Shaik-Emam, Mr Ahmed Munzoor African Independent Congress Ntshayisa, Mr Lulama Maxwell Congress of the People Madisha, Mr William Mothipa Pan Africanist Congress Nyhontso, Mr Mzwanele Al Jama-ah Hendricks, Mr Mogamad Ganief Ebrahim TimesLIVE