Based on the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic in other countries, an SA expert predicts  SA’s third wave could be 25% more severe than the second wave, but says the risk can be mitigated if precautions are taken now. According to infection disease specialist Prof Ian Sanne, CEO of Right To Care, an NPO focused on prevention of the spread of viruses and specifically HIV, the organisation has made recommendations that hospitals prepare for a progressive implementation for capacity. Sanne could not give an official date for when the third wave was to be expected and said it could be too early to say, but his personal prediction would be by mid-May. “Our recommendations in planning levels is that a progressive implementation of patient and hospital capacity be available for the third wave which could be 25% higher than the second wave. “We base the prediction on information gathered in the monitoring of the epidemic in other countries. “We don’t say block hospitals but rather progressively implement hospitals for the third wave.” The implementations he described are: “This is a warning to  citizens that the third wave could be as high as 25% greater. We hope this doesn’t happen and that the vaccine will help [with immunisation].” Sanne said  wearing a mask and social distancing was the way to stave off the third wave of infections while vaccinations  are administered. “The messaging is very clear: we do think respiratory droplet spread is the main cause of the infection  and in confined spaces the concern is airborne  transmission.” This is why he supports the current regulations limiting the number of people gathering. “Facilities should not exceed 50% capacity and there is a strong emphasis on ventilation. This will reduce the number super-spreader events. While the gatherings regulations are in place, restaurants are afforded the opportunity to open, but bars and nightclubs are a source of transmission. “The emphasis is on planning because the longer we delay the third wave, the better it will be for everyone.” Sanne said the areas they were  looking at were districts in the Free State, North West and  Northern Cape, which are showing higher infections rates. “Active case finding [tracking and tracing] is under way to try mitigate this risk.” According to national health department spokesperson Popo Maja,  1.1 million doses of Johnson & Johnson vaccine are  due to arrive on Monday. “However, there are still some quality issues that need to be resolved between now and then, together with the publication of the NFC [no-fault compensation fund] regulations,” he said. Co-operative governance and traditional affairs minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma on Thursday gazetted regulations for the Covid-19 Vaccine Injury No-fault Compensation Scheme, her office said. “The scheme will provide access to compensation for persons who suffer harm, loss or damage as a result of vaccine injury caused by the administration of a Covid-19 vaccine administered at a registered facility within SA,” the statement read. The contact details of the scheme are e-mail: info@nfcfund.co.za or telephone 086-112-3267. TimesLIVE