Four months after the successful launch of one of SA’s largest inner-city residential developments, Wedgewood Sandton, Balwin Properties has started construction. This record-breaking start for the Balwin lifestyle apartments is the first for the area, which has a lot to do with the demand vs product offering. “Wedgewood Sandton has adopted a ‘travel less, live more’ concept, set to become the next big thing in the property market. Buyer trends are evolving, and people are either buying closer to their places of work or to reliable public transport solutions. This works particularly well with having the Gautrain at our doorstep,” says Balwin Properties CEO Steve Brookes. “While conducting our market research for this development, we came to understand how important it is for people to live close to work, specifically to lessen their environmental impact or carbon footprint. Buyers are making their decisions based on proximity to amenities and hospitals, and the facilities offered within the development,” says Rainmaker Marketing director Stefan Botha. “The reason for this buying decision is that people are starting to value their time more. Public transport makes more sense if you need to use that time to answer e-mails or plan your day. Stress levels are increasing, and naturally work productivity decreases if employees are spending hours in a car, worrying about time.” With amenities including Training Science, Motherland Coffee Company, sports facilities, business pods, an outdoor cinema, a lounge, chill zones and a rooftop five-a-side football field, people can head straight home and do everything they need in the comfort of their own space. “This is a first-of-its-kind development in the Sandton area and we have managed to successfully break ground in only four months, which sets the standard for future developments in the Gauteng region,” says Brookes. “The start of construction at Wedgewood Sandton will create significant employment opportunities and contribute to levies and taxes annually. Breaking ground on April 1 has been the goal, and knowing we are able to follow through with this promise gives our buyers the confidence that Balwin Properties has always strived to maintain.” This article was paid for by Wedgewood Sandton.