Lindsay Myeni, the wife of late Lindani Myeni, has opened up about adjusting to life without her husband. Since Lindani's death last week, Lindsay has been documenting the adjustment through social media posts. Lindani, a former SA rugby player, was shot dead by officers from the Honolulu police department in Hawaii after they responded to an alleged “burglary in progress” at a home in Nuuanu. In a series of Facebook posts, Lindsay shared, for the past four days, how she and her two children have been camping and sleeping at a friend's house. She said everyone, including friends, has come through for them during the difficult time. Lindsay also shared a video where she said her youngest daughter “still thinks daddy’s coming home”. “We need to know why you killed the Prince of uBombo. He was on his way home,” she said. She said she will not stop demanding justice for Lindani until all evidence is brought to light. “We will not stop until we get all of the body cam footage, the ring cam footage from the house he was at, every angle, every word that was spoken. “SA will not let this go. You killed their Prince. May you never assume another black man is a criminal and murder him on the way home again,” she said. On Tuesday, Lindsay said Lindani will be buried in SA, and the money currently being raised through a GoFundMe will be used for flights, funeral and lawyers. The details around his funeral are still unknown. $19,596 (about R278,382) has been raised through the GoFundMe page. The goal is to raise $100,000 (over R1m). “Thanks for everyone asking how they can help. All the support and love has been getting us through the days,” she said. “We’ve had his best Denver friend fly down, my brother and his girlfriend, my sister, two of my World Race friends, and my friends already in Hawaii helping. May Lindani’s legacy never end. We love you so much, king.” At the weekend, the Honolulu police department released footage from two of the three officers who responded to a “burglary in progress”. In it, one police officer can be heard shouting for Lindani to “get on the ground”. Four gunshots can be heard and then another officer shouts “police”. Honolulu police department chief Susan Ballard said Lindani entered the home and started chatting with the homeowners, who were upset he had come inside. She said Lindani left shortly afterwards and “sat in his vehicle” before police arrived. Ballard was unable to say if Lindani had taken anything from the home, which would substantiate the reason for labelling it a burglary.