The state capture commission has filed its urgent application to extend its tenure until the end of June, saying the Covid-19 lockdown meant a three-month delay that the commission could not have anticipated. In an affidavit, the commission chair, deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo, said  even though the last extension was ordered by the court to be “final”, this should not tie the hands of the court now. This was because factors had arisen that “were outside the control of the commission and could not have been anticipated at the time”. Zondo said the lockdown — announced in March last year a few weeks after the court’s order granting a “final” extension in February — meant the commission was not by law allowed to hold public hearings in April and May and spent June making logistical arrangements for how public hearings could resume. “There was also a disruptive impact on some of the work of the investigation team: for example, investigators were not generally able to travel across provincial borders to seek out and consult potential witnesses,” said Zondo. He said the commission had taken a number of steps to try  to make up the time — including evening sessions — but had not managed to do so. Zondo also explained why the commission’s application — announced in December — was only filed this week, putting this down to his heavy workload and  10 days of Covid-19 isolation in January. He said the commission was almost done with hearing oral evidence and was hoping to use most of the extension period, if granted, for writing the report. He said  it was in the public interest to grant the extension because it was not granted “the commission will be denied the opportunity to prepare its report” for the president. “It would be untenable for the commission to have been allowed to hear all the evidence it has heard since 2018 and deny it the opportunity to prepare and submit a report to the president. This would, I believe, clearly not be in the public interest,” said Zondo. In his affidavit, he gave the court an update on the commission’s various workstreams: TimesLIVE