A famous SA celebrity couple continue to battle it out in court more than a year after they announced their split. More details surrounding claims amounting to millions of rand have been made public in court documents published on the Southern African Legal Institute’s website. The estranged couple, a world-renowned DJ and a well-known actress, got engaged in 2010. They had a traditional wedding a year later and a white wedding in 2017. In 2019 they confirmed, after months of speculation, that they are getting divorced. The couple's road to divorce  has not been smooth as they have gone back and forth trying to reach a settlement they were both happy with in terms of the sharing of assets as they dissolve their marriage. The latest demands from the actress were made public after the court published the judgment on February 18 for an application brought forward by the DJ and  heard in October last year. The DJ brought an application to the court to ask that it save him “unnecessary” legal costs by having their “marriage in community of property” notion dismissed. The application also requested that the court uphold the civil marriage which they entered into, and that the antenuptial contract entered into between the parties be made valid and enforceable. This after the actress instituted a Rule 43 application against the DJ in June 2020, wherein she claimed among other things that she needed a R4m contribution towards her legal costs based on her intention to appoint a forensic auditor to do a forensic investigation of the DJ’s offshore and local assets and to do a comprehensive investigation to determine the value of the “joint estate”. The couple entered into a customary marriage in community of property on May 14 2011. On January 5 2017, they entered into a civil marriage and shortly before that — in 2016 — had concluded an antenuptial contract in terms whereof they excluded community of property, community of profit and loss and the accrual system. The court ordered the DJ’s application be dismissed with costs.