Tiger Brands, SA’s largest food producer, has temporarily closed all operations in KwaZulu-Natal, which accounts for the bulk of the more than R150m in stock losses the company has suffered as the result of widespread looting. The owner of  brands such as Tastic rice and Albany bread said on Thursday that the extent of the damage to property and infrastructure, as well as the affect on profit,  were yet to be determined. However, it said it was covered by insurance. Its  shares dropped 0.44% and were trading at R212.06 at midmorning  on the JSE, valuing Tiger Brands at about R40.4bn. Bakery operations and the distribution of bread have been suspended in KwaZulu-Natal, while deliveries of the staple  in Gauteng have been affected by transport issues  and the closure of  stores. Tiger Brands supplies  grocery retailers, some of which have also been affected by the looting frenzy and damage to property.  Other stores were closed temporarily as a precautionary measure. “As the largest food manufacturer in the country, we are working closely with our supply partners to ensure ongoing production at our operations,” the company said. “However, security of supply to consumers is subject to the reopening of key transport routes and access to the operations of our retail and wholesale partners.” The unrest, which was sparked by the jailing  of former president Jacob Zuma last week,  degenerated into widespread  looting, vandalism and arson at shopping malls, warehouses and factories in KZN and Gauteng. Dozens of freight trucks were set ablaze, leading to the temporary closure of the N3 highway  linking Durban and Johannesburg, raising fears of food shortages. The government has sought to reassure the public about the security of food supplies, saying it  is working with  the Consumer Goods Council of SA and other parties  to avert  food shortages. The council represents 9,000 members in  the retail value chain. The government has  deployed 25,000 army personnel  to restore law and order in affected areas. Gauteng was  calmer on  Thursday, with mop-up operations at the affected shopping malls under way.  Durban was still tense,  with several buildings on fire. The mayor of eThekwini Mxolisi Kaunda estimated on Wednesday that the damage would cost the metro  R16bn. BusinessLIVE