Kaizer Chiefs goalkeeper Bruce Bvuma isn’t losing any sleep over his chances of starting the CAF Champions League final over experienced Itumeleng Khune and Daniel Akpeyi. As all three Chiefs keepers in Khune, Akpeyi and Bvuma have done exceptionally well in the club’s Champions League run, coaches are faced with a difficult task to decide who will start in the decider against Al Ahly at Stade Mohammed V Stadium in Morocco on Saturday (9pm SA time). Speaking to Sowetan yesterday, the 26-year-old Bvuma made it clear he wasn’t too concerned about whether he’ll start or not, emphasising the team takes precedence over his individual wishes. “I have been in this position before [referring to not knowing if he’ll play or not], so I will see how things turn out for me. All I have to do is  work hard and hope that I get a starting nod. However, I am not losing sleep because I know we are all ready and whoever plays will do well,’’ Bvuma said. “If I don’t play, I will support whoever plays because at the end of the day, the most important thing is the team. It’s the team, not Bruce who’s in the final of the Champions League, so the goals of the team are more important.’’ At the start of the season, Bvuma was never in the picture as Khune and Akpeyi made it difficult for him to break into the starting XI. The Bafana Bafana keeper only started to taste action when both Khune and Akpeyi were sidelined by injuries. “I started the season as a third-choice and I had to work very hard to get game time. Even though I started to play late,  it was worth the wait because the games I played were very important and I was happy that I managed to perform,’’ Bvuma reflected. The lad from Bramfischerville in Soweto knows how winning the Champions League would boost his CV as a player. Bvuma has a burning desire to dedicate the cup to their chairman Kaizer Motaung. “Winning the Champions League would mean a lot for me as Bruce. It would help me in my career in terms of my CV, people would respect me in football. We want to put a star on our jersey and we want to win the cup for our chairman,’’ noted the  keeper.