In celebration of 20 years of good hair days, iconic design, life-changing technology, catwalk hairstyles and professional expertise — cult British hair tool brand ghd (good hair day) is launching the exclusive limited-edition Couture collection. Merging science and innovation, with luxury beauty and style; ghd pioneers new technologies and beautiful designs to create the most technically advanced hair tools in the world. Developed by leading scientists in its research & development laboratories in Cambridge, ghd tools are safer for heat styling and have become an essential part of the daily lives of hairstylists and women globally. A global leader in hair tools, and the UK’s number one recommended styling brand, ghd tools are used by 200,000 stylists around the world and sold in more than 30 countries and 45,000 premium salons. Adored by professionals, ghd tools are backstage essentials at fashion week, bringing to life the hair trends season after season across all the fashion capitals and for brands including D&G, Dior and Prada. A trusted and loved brand, ghd sells two-million stylers every year, and five iconic ghd products are sold every minute. The brand has won more than 300 beauty awards for its ground-breaking tools, which maintain a consistent heat of 185ºC — the optimum temperature for heat styling, without compromising the health of hair. The futuristic collection in ombré chrome design and ghd 20th-anniversary hallmark features the award-winning platinum+ styler that predicts your hair’s needs, the iconic ghd gold styler, and the professional’s favourite ghd helios hairdryer. PLATINUM+ STYLER The ultimate smart styler features ground-breaking ultra-zone technology that responds to your hair and the way you style, controlling heat more effectively and predicting your personal hair needs. It gives 70% stronger hair (reduced breakage and less colour fade vs a styler working at 230ºC), double the colour protection and 20% more shine than naturally dried hair. Professional smart styler with luxury chrome heat-resistant bag: R3,500 HELIOS HAIR DRYER For ultra-powerful drying and ultimate styling results with 30% more hair shine, the ghd helios hairdryer with Aeroprecis technology and bespoke contoured nozzle puts the power of a salon blow-dry in your hands. Professional hair dryer: R3,200 GOLD STYLER The iconic ghd gold styler features dual-zone technology for premium performance which delivers salon-quality results sleeker, smoother and healthier-looking hair. In a test of 128 consumers, more agreed that ghd gold was better than ghd V hair straightener for leaving hair sleeker, smoother, shinier and healthier looking. Professional iconic styler with luxury chrome heat-resistant bag: R2,900 All ghd styling products and tools are available in the finest salons and ghdhair.com. This article was paid for by ghd.